Promscale - Add Overview & Getting Started (#478)
timescale/docs: promscale/send-data/opentelemetry.md

# Send OpenTelemetry data to Promscale

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

Promscale natively supports the OpenTelemetry Line Protocol (OTLP) for 

> traces. Therefore you can use any of the OpenTelemetry client SDKs,

Author: ```suggestion
traces. You can use any of the OpenTelemetry client SDKs,
```

instrumentation libraries or the OpenTelemetry Collector to send traces to
Promscale using OTLP. Currently, only gRPC is supported.

<highlight type="important">
Support for OpenTelemetry traces is currently in beta and is disabled by default.
If you want to send your OpenTelemetry traces to Promscale, see the
instructions in the
[tracing documentation](https://github.com/timescale/promscale/blob/master/docs/tracing.md).
</highlight>

# Configure the OpenTelemetry Collector

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

You can configure the OpenTelemetry collector to forward traces to Promscale. Promscale listens
to OTLP data on the port you specified with the `otlp-grpc-server-listen-address`
parameter when you started the Promscale connector.

Open the OpenTelemetry collector configuration file, and forward the OTLP traces to Promscale by adding or editing these lines:

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

```yaml
exporters:
  otlp:
    endpoint: "<connector-host>:<OTLP-port>"
    insecure: true
```

> Replace `<connector-host>` and `OTLP-port` with the corresponding hostname and port. For example, if you are running
> the OTLP Collector and the Promscale Connector on a Kubernetes cluster the endpoint parameter would be something like
> `endpoint: "promscale-connector.default.svc.cluster.local:9202"`

Author: ```suggestion
Replace `<connector-host>` and `OTLP-port` with the corresponding hostname and port. 
For example, if you are running the OTLP Collector and the Promscale Connector on a 
Kubernetes cluster the endpoint parameter would be similar to
`endpoint: "promscale-connector.default.svc.cluster.local:9202"`
```

# Configure the OpenTelemetry instrumentation

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> While using the OpenTelemetry Collector to export data to an observability backend
> is recommended in production, you can also send data from OpenTelemetry instrumentation
> libraries and SDKs directly to Promscale using OTLP.

Author: ```suggestion
We recommend that you use the OpenTelemetry Collector to export data to an observability backend
in production. However, you can also send data from OpenTelemetry instrumentation
libraries and SDKs directly to Promscale using OTLP.
```

The specifics of the configuration depend on each SDK and library. See the corresponding

> github repository or the [OpenTelemetry documentation][otel-docs] for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
GitHub repository or the [OpenTelemetry documentation][otel-docs] for more information.
```
